---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-07-28
title: DID WG Telco — 2020-07-28
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020-07-28-did",
        "name": "DID WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-07-28",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-07-28",
            "endDate": "2020-07-28",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daniel Burnett"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Tobias Looker"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Drummond Reed"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Brent Zundel"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wayne Chang"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jonathan Holt"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kaliya Young"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kyle Den Hartog"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Michael Jones"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Justin Richer"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# DID WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2020-07-28

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/mid/DM6PR15MB38328C686EF747AE48BF72DAE2730@DM6PR15MB3832.namprd15.prod.outlook.com) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/07/28-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Daniel Burnett, Manu Sporny, Markus Sabadello, Tobias Looker, Dave Longley, Drummond Reed, Brent Zundel, Wayne Chang, Orie Steele, Jonathan Holt, Kaliya Young, Kyle Den Hartog, Michael Jones, Justin Richer

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daniel Burnett

**Scribe(s):** Tobias Looker, Drummond Reed

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Daniel Burnett:* rragent, draft minutes

> *Orie Steele:* Made this over the weekend, [https://didme.me/did:meme:1zgsya8mdj6mq4ytx7a57fx89r0c404eyqej6kfl2wtm3fyvm5qgpngs0725xp](https://didme.me/did:meme:1zgsya8mdj6mq4ytx7a57fx89r0c404eyqej6kfl2wtm3fyvm5qgpngs0725xp)

### 1. Agenda Review, Introductions, Re-introductions
{: #section1}

**Daniel Burnett:** We are going to have 10 mins on unknown properties, to see what is to be done  
… then we are going through our core issue status check  
… I will officially re-introduce my self as the ED of the enterprise ethereum alliance, no change from my chairing positions at W3C  

### 2. Next Topic Call
{: #section2}

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/labels/keys](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/labels/keys)

**Daniel Burnett:** Next topic call going to be on JWK keys will be on our usual thursday time  
… any questions about this?  

> *Orie Steele:* related to the did keys topic call, you may want to review this work: [https://github.com/decentralized-identity/did-jose-extensions/blob/master/options.md](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/did-jose-extensions/blob/master/options.md)

### 3. Unknown Properties
{: #section3}

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/205](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/205)

**Daniel Burnett:** So i am hoping someone would like to speak to this issue  

**Manu Sporny:** There are only a handful of options for unknown properties in a did document, e.g., if you see an unknown error through an error or ignore the unknown error  

> *Orie Steele:* on the subject of input validation and "unknown properties"

> *Orie Steele:* [https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Input_Validation_Cheat_Sheet.html](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Input_Validation_Cheat_Sheet.html)

**Manu Sporny:** we need to pick some form of behaviour, some in the WG have asked for firm guidance around this  
… we are looking for feedback on WG members on what we should do with regards to this  

> *Dave Longley:* from my comment on that thread regarding "what unknown means": "...we should refer to "unknown" properties as "ambiguous" properties (or properties with ambiguous semantics) because it helps highlight the problem. Such properties could be interpreted in multiple ways; it isn't just that there is one global meaning and our application doesn't happen to be programmed to understand it."

**Jonathan Holt:** My challenge is understanding what we mean by unknown, its helpful to understand how some cryptographic libraries handle unknown properties, for example how linked data proofs handle unknown properties  

> *Orie Steele:* where as a JWT doesn't actually drop "ignored" properties... it still signs over them.... VC JWT does nothing different than vanilla JOSE.

**Michael Jones:** my first reaction is i'm puzzled as to why we are having this conversation, there is already text in the spec that says unknown members must be ignored  
… can anyone illuminate why this is a topic for conversation  

**Manu Sporny:** the definition for unknown is unclear  
… that is why we are having this conversation  

**Orie Steele:** as we consider extensibility for JSON we should be considering how this is used in other languages, e.g., how JSON is used in javascript is very different to other strongly typed langugages  

**Markus Sabadello:** I dont have a strong opinion here, just wanted to respond to mike's comment, that section is specifically in just the JSON section at present, instead it should be across all representations  

> *Orie Steele:* its my opinion that JSON and JavaScript are not great sources of good security engineering... if I were picking a language and a data format where I had more security built in... I would look at protocol buffers and go or rust.

> *Orie Steele:* there is a `crit` header in JOSE, and nobody uses it properly :)

> *Orie Steele:* [https://snyk.io/learn/javascript-security/](https://snyk.io/learn/javascript-security/) - > See the input validation section.

**Manu Sporny:** +1 to that being consistent across representations, typically this issue is not present for a JWT because members are included but ignored by application processors, however this is different to how linked data security handles this where unknown members can be dropped and therefore signatures will throw an error  
… because they think it is unsafe to leave it in, where as JWT processors will just keep that information in, so the question is does ignore mean dont do anything at all or clean it up  
… essentially I think we need to have a deeper conversation on this issue as there appears to be confusion about what we mean  
… in regards to ignore  

> *Dave Longley:* converting between representations is also important here -- which is important in this discussion vs. other specs where there is only one concrete serialization.

**Daniel Burnett:** sounds like we need more discussion time, we will put this on the special topics list for a later call  
… any objections to a special topic call on this?  

**Jonathan Holt:** I'd just like for us to explore threat models as a part of this too  
… and I think we need to invite some invited experts to give us a hand to discuss the implications  

**Michael Jones:** Again we tried to settle and close issues, and we discussed this and closed the issue. I believe we agreed in amsterdam that across all representations this behaviour applied i.e ignore if you don't understand  
… I don't believe there is a substantive decision remaining around this  

> *Orie Steele:* we don't need extensibility if we are going to pull in JSON security tradeoffs...

> *Orie Steele:* also, we have yet to see a DID Method that ONLY uses JSON... so evaluating security decisions related to it is difficult.

**Manu Sporny:** there is a fundamental difference in how un-known members are treated in JSON vs JSON-LD that is requiring we address this in a follow on call  

### 4. Core issue status check (extra-filtered edition)
{: #section4}

**Daniel Burnett:** This is where we try to take out the issues that are already being worked on in someway  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+sort%3Aupdated-asc+-label%3Aeditorial+-label%3Adiscuss+-label%3Aneeds-special-call+-label%3A%22horizontal+review%22+-label%3Ametadata+-label%3Akeys+](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+sort%3Aupdated-asc+-label%3Aeditorial+-label%3Adiscuss+-label%3Aneeds-special-call+-label%3A%22horizontal+review%22+-label%3Ametadata+-label%3Akeys+)

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/198](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/198)

**Daniel Burnett:** starting with issue 198  

**Markus Sabadello:** once actions on did resolution have been added it can be closed  
… one thing that hasn't been added is addressing dereferencing  

**Daniel Burnett:** can you add a comment that suggests closing and opening a new issue for dereferencing?  

**Markus Sabadello:** yes  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/185](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/185)

**Daniel Burnett:** issue 185  

**Tobias Looker:** The consensus landed that all of the issues have been addressed so it can be closed.  

**Daniel Burnett:** Are you willing to leave a comment to that effect?  

**Tobias Looker:** Yes  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/332](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/332)

**Daniel Burnett:** issue number 332  

**Brent Zundel:** issue status has not changed waiting on github pages  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/249](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/249)

**Daniel Burnett:** next issue is 249  

**Markus Sabadello:** this is on how to trust the resolver a very frequent topic on the did resolution call, we have discussed the desire for the did core spec to speak about this issue, however I think most of it belongs in did resolution  

**Daniel Burnett:** looks like there is disagreement about whether commentary in the implementation guid is sufficient, can you please add a comment around this?  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/333](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/333)

**Daniel Burnett:** issue 333 appears to be marked pending close  
… not sure why it is not on our list, any objections to closing otherwise we will move on  

**Markus Sabadello:** yeah this should be closed  

**Brent Zundel:** technically we can close it now  

> *Orie Steele:* +1 to closing stuff

**Daniel Burnett:** any objections to closing now  
… issue closed  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/339](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/339)

**Daniel Burnett:** issue 339  
… opened by jonathan  

**Jonathan Holt:** I used the same framework for how we determine about why this feature should not be marked at risk  
… I see manu just added a link around CBOR-LD and I am supportive of discussing it  
… Im working on PR around key formats but having problems with existing statements about them having to be stringified, also working on around mime type to detect the did document is expressed in CBOR  

**Daniel Burnett:** as a comment around features at risk we need to be sure we have sufficient implementations to make, if we do not have at least 2 implementations of a feature then it needs to be pulled  

**Jonathan Holt:** I believe between my and ories implementation we have two  

**Manu Sporny:** I'd challenge that I dont think there are two completely compatible implementations of CBOR based did documents today  
… orie is that correct?  

**Orie Steele:** yes the work i am doing is to explore the size trade offs but my implementation is not totally interoperable  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/340](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/340)

**Jonathan Holt:** related to the previous issue  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/328](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/328)

**Daniel Burnett:** moving on to 328  

> *Orie Steele:* we may want to talk about COSE (JOSE?) on keys all as well

**Daniel Burnett:** amy says there is a PR for it  
… which is now merged, manu is this sufficient to close?  

**Manu Sporny:** yeah I think this is done, I made a full pass  

**Daniel Burnett:** marking as pending close  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/324](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/324)

**Daniel Burnett:** next one is number 324  

**Justin Richer:** just a note on 328, there were some comments on the issue, infra does not currently define things like numbers which is problematic as we will need this going forward, because of that this issue is mostly done  

**Daniel Burnett:** can you please put a comment around that, or raise a new issue  

**Justin Richer:** ok I will raise a new issue  

**Drummond Reed:** with regards to 324 this is deep enough that we might want to consider a specific note on this issue  
… I think this needs to be labeled with security and privacy GH labels  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/whatwg/infra/issues/87](https://github.com/whatwg/infra/issues/87)

**Manu Sporny:** just to follow up on justin_r's comment w.r.t the numbers stuff we may be able to get numbers but unlikely to get date  

> *Justin Richer:* +1 it should be simple but it shouldn't be overlooked

**Kyle Den Hartog:** Just giving an update on 87, there is a discussion on the CCG about this topic, what I gathered from adrian is that the text is no sufficient is addressing all of his concerns  

**Daniel Burnett:** can you please add a comment and a link to the CCG discussion please  

> *Justin Richer:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/361](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/361) to capture the infra thing

**Kyle Den Hartog:** I will add a link pointing to the archive  

**Daniel Burnett:** next issue is number 341  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/341](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/341)

**Daniel Burnett:** iana registration for CBOR, no one assigned  
… I am going to assign chris who opened it  

**Manu Sporny:** i am a bit concerned that chris is asking for something that the WG is not working on, the use case is not clear, I will add a comment to the issue  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/202](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/202)

**Daniel Burnett:** issue 202, opened by justin_r, what's the status  

**Justin Richer:** Has this been added to the producer and consumer section yet?  
… i liked dave's language happy for that to be added  
… as long as it aligns over all representations  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/349](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/349)

**Justin Richer:** issue 349  

**Markus Sabadello:** a direct consequence of removing matrix parameters from the spec  
… we talked about this at length at DIF F2F there is a PR for this  

> *Drummond Reed:* Pull it in!

**Daniel Burnett:** PR is close to being merged, once done this will be ready to close  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/122](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/122)

**Daniel Burnett:** issue 122 a great one to finish on  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** amy did a PR in the past however it looks like there is some additional language to add  

> *Daniel Buchner:* I say that after every glass of wine

> *Markus Sabadello:* Regarding [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/344,](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/344,) we could use some additional input on this..

> *Orie Steele:* ^ its not in the minutes... but i said just one more.

---
