---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-06-16
title: DID WG Telco — 2020-06-16
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020-06-16-did",
        "name": "DID WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-06-16",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-06-16",
            "endDate": "2020-06-16",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Chris Winczewski"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Yancy Ribbens"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Justin Richer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jonathan Holt"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "paulm"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Amy Guy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Drummond Reed"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Eugeniu Rusu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daniel Burnett"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David Ezell"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# DID WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2020-06-16

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2020Jun/0016.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/06/16-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Brent Zundel, Yancy Ribbens, Justin Richer, Dave Longley, Jonathan Holt, paulm, Orie Steele, Amy Guy, Manu Sporny, Chris Winczewski, Drummond Reed, Joe Andrieu, Eugeniu Rusu, Daniel Burnett, David Ezell

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Chris Winczewski

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---



**Ivan Herman:** issue with github, for example previews not working  
… minutes may not be generated properly either   
… just an FYI, no support requested but status unknown  

### 1. Reintroductions
{: #section1}

**paulm:** Paul Madsen from Hedera Hashgraph  
… recently submitted our DID method  

### 2. next special topic call
{: #section2}

**Brent Zundel:** special topic call on Thursday  
… June 18th 12pm ET  

**Manu Sporny:** we should have a PR to work from, completion of action item with dlongley  

### 3. extended discussion time
{: #section3}

**Brent Zundel:** June 30th 10am and July 1st noon meetings set  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2020Jun/0015.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2020Jun/0015.html)

**Brent Zundel:** replacing face to face meeting  
… any changes to the agenda?  

### 4. issues' status check
{: #section4}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc)

**Brent Zundel:** status checks  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/269](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/269)

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #269  

**Joe Andrieu:** Not sure how to resolve this issue with Kyle  
… we have not been effective communicating DID control  
… I will add to this today  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/33](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/33)

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #33  
… Dmitri not present to discuss  
… This has turned into the "same as" property  
… current status unknown  

**Dave Longley:** special call has been requested, does the group agree?  

**Manu Sporny:** I think we need a special topic call on this  

> *Manu Sporny:* ivan, I think we were thinking of "stealing" the meaning of sameAs from RDF :) -- without all the OWL baggage.

**Ivan Herman:** looking at the issue, this is very RDF specific. What is the impact on other formats  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/55](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/55)

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #55  

> *Manu Sporny:* but we'll need a special topic call to talk through the details.

**Brent Zundel:** Oliver and Mike not present  

**Manu Sporny:** I will update the issue. DID registries specification can take up this work  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/171](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/171)

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #171  

> *Amy Guy:* ethereumAddress is already registered in the Spec Registries, for the record

**Manu Sporny:** We need to have a special topic call for what we are doing with JWK. Blocked currently.  
… Adding to issue  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/163](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/163)

**Drummond Reed:** No change to this  
… we are updating terms and working on this now  
… action item is to link just prior to CR. Will proceed with this and add a note to this effect.  

**Ivan Herman:** ReSpec gives you tools for this  

**Drummond Reed:** We are trying to to this as we go  

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #94  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/94](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/94)

**Daniel Burnett:** will plan on doing this but would welcome help if offered. Have the security questions been answered?  

**Jonathan Holt:** I am working on it  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/94](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/94)

**Daniel Burnett:** Ok, I am not blocked by that yet  

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #292  
… skipping as these are handled by separate issues  
… Issue #119  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/119](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/119)

**Daniel Burnett:** This is the master issue. In my mind this is about the same as the previous but depends on it. Adding comment to issue that chairs will start this when #92 and #291 are complete.  

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #291  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/291](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/291)

**Brent Zundel:** assigning to jonathan_holt  

> *Jonathan Holt:* jonathan-consensyshealth

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #72  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/72](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/72)

**Drummond Reed:** Nothing has changed. Will update section when main content is done.  

**Brent Zundel:** Anyone can work on issues, not just those who are assigned to the task. Please help the community and the editors if possible.  

**Drummond Reed:** I would be wildly enthusiastic if anyone would be willing to contribute text.  

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #202  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/202](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/202)

> *Daniel Burnett:* Perhaps some of our European members?

> *Daniel Burnett:* (even though GDPR affects us all)

**Justin Richer:** no update  

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #23  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/23](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/23)

> *Amy Guy:* brent: i wrote an update just now on the issue

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #58  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/58](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/58)

> *Amy Guy:* I think this is done, actually..

> *Amy Guy:* more or less

> *Amy Guy:* JoeAndrieu: I think this issue is overtaken by events!

**Joe Andrieu:** We need other people to help with this.  

**Brent Zundel:** I will add a comment.  

**Joe Andrieu:** This should be discussed in the CCG call  

> *Amy Guy:* JoeAndrieu: there's a new issue for Methods Registry and the LD Cryptosuites one is not longer referenced

**Joe Andrieu:** This relates to process issues that need to be decided by the CCG  
… Is Wayne a member of the WG?  

**Ivan Herman:** yes  

**Joe Andrieu:** We need to be intentional about the link between groups  

**Manu Sporny:** I will bring this up in the CCG meeting  
… massive conversation but many contributors not on the call today  

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #289  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/289](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/289)

**Dave Longley:** I think there is a PR from Kyle which allows people to take action with regards to DID subjects. This may solve this issue and I will add this comment.  

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #281  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/281](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/281)

**Brent Zundel:** related to Issue #23  
… Issue #174  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/174](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/174)

**Brent Zundel:** blocked by Issue #65  

> *Amy Guy:* brent, same status

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #104  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/104](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/104)

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/313](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/313) is the only issue they raised

**Ivan Herman:** there is an issue that we received from the internationalization group. Issue #313  
… it looks like an editorial comment to me  

> *Amy Guy:* ivan, you can assign that to me

> *Amy Guy:* (unless someone else wants it)

**Brent Zundel:** should we leave this open pending #313?  

**Ivan Herman:** yes  

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #105  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/105](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/105)

**Ivan Herman:** nothing to report. waiting for them  
… I have pinged them, the ball is in their court  

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #9  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/9](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/9)

**Brent Zundel:** it looks like the PR was created and merged  

**Manu Sporny:** Part of this needs discussion with regards to JWK, the rest is replaced  
… there is another issue tracking this for JWK  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 for closing

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #10  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/10](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/10)

**Manu Sporny:** We can close this for the same reason as #9 and I will add this comment  

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #301  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/301](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/301)

**Brent Zundel:** nobody present to discuss  
… Issue #176  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/176](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/176)

**Brent Zundel:** last comment was that a PR would be created by selfissued  
… Issue #118  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/118](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/118)

> *Amy Guy:* brent, no update since last time

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #236  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/236](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/236)

**Manu Sporny:** This is a registry issue. Those who want this should open a PR there. I will close this here.  

> *Amy Guy:* publicKeyHex is already in the Registries

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #260  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/260](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/260)

**Drummond Reed:** Writing a set of diagrams.  
… Would we consider an appendix for a non-normative explanation?  

> *Amy Guy:* implementation guide!

**Ivan Herman:** I am not an editor but I would love to have that  

**Drummond Reed:** I am volunteering to do it, what would we call it?  

**Ivan Herman:** An appendix is correct and ReSpec can handle this.  

**Jonathan Holt:** Adding controllers opens up keys to vulnerabilities. Can you explain the text proposed?  

**Drummond Reed:** The text is focusing on just the process. We should add text for this in the security considerations  

**Brent Zundel:** We are now on page 2!  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?page=2&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?page=2&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc)

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #151  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/151](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/151)

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #154  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/154](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/154)

> *Amy Guy:* brent, manu, proof has been removed right?

> *Manu Sporny:* rhiaro, yes... don't know if there are other things left... need to check.

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #195  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/195](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/195)

**Manu Sporny:** I believe we have removed everything. I think this is done and we can close it.  
… not blocked by did-core registry but we need a PR  

> *Drummond Reed:* +1 to Manu's language.

**Dave Longley:** another option is that #312 may solve this  

**Manu Sporny:** next step is to see if #312 solves the issue, if not, object to the new comment  

**Brent Zundel:** Issue #205  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/205](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/205)

**Justin Richer:** I still think that we do not have group consensus.  
… We cannot have multiple ways to approach unknown properties so we still need to pick one.  
… The text says we must ignore but we don't know what ignore needs  

**Dave Longley:** the confusion is around what "unknown" means  
… there are differences between JSON and JSON-LD  
… I will type up comments  

**Brent Zundel:** Thank you all. See you Thursday for the special topic call.  

---
