---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-06-23
title: DID WG Telco — 2020-06-23
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020-06-23-did",
        "name": "DID WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "DID WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-06-23",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-06-23",
            "endDate": "2020-06-23",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daniel Burnett"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Kaliya Young"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tobias Looker"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Brent Zundel"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ganesh Annan"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Michael Jones"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Drummond Reed"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Adrian Gropper"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jonathan Holt"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# DID WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2020-06-23

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/mid/00000000000070b10005a876f672@google.com) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/06/23-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Daniel Burnett, Tobias Looker, Brent Zundel, Kaliya Young, Dave Longley, Orie Steele, Ganesh Annan, Michael Jones, Markus Sabadello, Drummond Reed, Adrian Gropper, Jonathan Holt

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daniel Burnett

**Scribe(s):** Kaliya Young

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Agenda Review, Introductions, Re-introductions
{: #section1}

### 2. Next Topic Call
{: #section2}

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/labels/metadata](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/labels/metadata)

**Daniel Burnett:** Next topic call: on Thursday at noon eastern.  
… wrap up resolution contracts and move onto metadata as primary topic and time permitting we will move on to key formats for JWK  

### 3. Extended discussions
{: #section3}

**Daniel Burnett:** extended discussions next Tuesday and Wednesday - apologies time confusion - look at e-mail thread and corrected.  

> *Kaliya Young:* Tuesday 10am-1:30 pm Eastern

**Daniel Burnett:** Chairs would like to ask for any topics that people would like to discuss -  

**Manu Sporny:** Features we are concerned about being "at risk"  
… if we don't see them improve before candidate recommendation  
… those are cobra representation and __  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2020Jun/0015.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2020Jun/0015.html)

> *Manu Sporny:* At risk are two representations - JSON-only and CBOR-only

**Daniel Burnett:** we need to talk about the test suite  

### 4. Core issue status check
{: #section4}

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc)

**Daniel Burnett:** Horizonal review tracking  
… we are working on them - internationalization is done  
… the TAG review and did explainer  
… the ping review we need someone to write that.  

**Brett McDowell:** johnatahan is still working on security and privacy  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/281](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/281)

**Daniel Burnett:** Mike is assigned to this one  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/174](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/174)

**Daniel Burnett:** who is going to take action moving forward in the issue  

> *Manu Sporny:* I expect this'll be discussed in the metadata discussion.

> *Manu Sporny:* (as an example)

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/105](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/105)

**Daniel Burnett:** Accessability self test  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/301](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/301)

**Markus Sabadello:** I don't think there is a resolution - we should ask Kyle to see if he still needs an answer to that  

**Daniel Burnett:** can you add comment  

**Markus Sabadello:** yes  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/176](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/176)

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/118](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/118)

**Daniel Burnett:** Accessability guidelines  
… Amy has done a lot of the work on this. What things does re-spec cover automatically  

**Manu Sporny:** no I have not chatted with her about it  
… it is likely in her cue and she is going through - she will do closer to CR  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/14](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/14)

**Dave Longley:** has been addressed has a PR was merged 12 days ago - can be closed  

> *Kaliya Young:* marked as pending closed

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/8](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/8)

**Daniel Burnett:** mike  
… is this part of the key format discussion  

**Michael Jones:** yes  

**Daniel Burnett:** this should get labeled with a label for that topic  

> *Orie Steele:* its really JOSE related.

> *Orie Steele:* not just key related.

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/198](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/198)

**Markus Sabadello:** Did resolution we have had several special topic calls - consensus can live with two separate functions - abastract form, bite stream  
… created a new PR trying to reflect this.  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/266](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/266)

**Daniel Burnett:** not assigned to anyone  
… johnathan does not want to talk about this - it can wait  

**Drummond Reed:** might be wroth noting that DID / X509 Certifiactes coming up  
… I think we should say something about this.  

**Michael Jones:** My reaction is to just say on.  

> *Kaliya Young:* mike : to say NO

**Daniel Burnett:** might be effectively done  

> *Tobias Looker:* I'm unsure what it is really asking?

**Daniel Burnett:** could check with the original comments - saying we think we have answered and planning on closing.  
… Can I assign it to one of the editors  

**Manu Sporny:** I can take it  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/85](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/85)

**Daniel Burnett:** metadata  
… discussing thursday (Mike is assigned) anything needed to be added before conversation  
… I don't think anything has changed from a couple weeks ago - move on  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/261](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/261)

**Daniel Burnett:** Issue number 261 Markus and the submitter are assigned  

**Markus Sabadello:** will put in a comment about thinking about it.  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/75](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/75)

**Daniel Burnett:** can be a pending close  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/185](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/185)

**Tobias Looker:** there is agreement about the key agreement key  
… multiple cypher suites comment will be added  

**Daniel Burnett:** 203 metadata - part of what we are trying to wrap up  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/65](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/65)

**Daniel Burnett:** hopefully will wrap up within the next week  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/258](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/258)

> *Drummond Reed:* +1 to Manu's proposal

**Manu Sporny:** migrate over to did registry and move it over to registry  

**Drummond Reed:** +1  

**Daniel Burnett:** who is updating that  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/249](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/249)

**Markus Sabadello:** I posted that this has been covered in the did resolution specification  
… asked if it could be re-opened in the did resolution spec  

**Drummond Reed:** merits a mention in security considerations - one paragraph that points over to resolution specification - drummond volunteers to put it in.  

**Daniel Burnett:** also had some thoughts on implementor language - if you are willing to write that you are willing to write a pR would be good  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/170](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/170)

> *Orie Steele:* no, i don't think so

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/208](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/208)

**Daniel Burnett:** we need to reach out to IANA to see what the status of this is - the only thing this need is to know who the "we" is  

**Manu Sporny:** myself yvonne, chairs - and it is still on the to-do list  

**Michael Jones:** there is an issue that could take a long tie - there are no media types with to ++s in it and it may go up and down the chain at IANA IETF for a while - so need to do it sooner rather than later.  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/240](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/240)

**Daniel Burnett:** that is what manu said two weeks ago  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/95](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/95)

**Daniel Burnett:** document structure waiting on resolution contract work to complete  

**Michael Jones:** how does the resolution contract relate to this - I think we can just say no  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/36](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/36)

**Michael Jones:** I'll pass  

**Drummond Reed:** is writing up his action items since the editors  

**Dave Longley:** clarification drummond - there will be no method specific parameters - just registered and unregistered  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/199](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/199)

**Daniel Burnett:** has reached the end of page 1  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/318](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/318)

**Daniel Burnett:** kyle - verification vs authorization relationships  
… Kyle turned on the bike shed but nobody jumped in  
… can you stop re-naming things  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/165](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/165)

**Daniel Burnett:** mike still needs to write the PR - Mike are you adding this to the "doo all the did stuff day"  

**Michael Jones:** this is the problem with issues...made mistake of reading the whole document  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/178](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/178)

**Manu Sporny:** pending close  

**Daniel Burnett:** next one is too  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/204](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/204)

**Daniel Burnett:** justin amy kyle - looks like it is still in progress.  
… itching to get all the way around - we got close - thank you everyone  

> *Drummond Reed:* Thank you Kaliya!

---
