---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-03-31
title: DID Working Group Telco — 2020-03-31
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020-03-31-did",
        "name": "DID Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "DID Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-03-31",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "DID Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-03-31",
            "endDate": "2020-03-31",
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Daniel Burnett"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Role",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Kyle Den Hartog"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Amy Guy"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Brent Zundel"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Yancy Ribbens"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Tobias Looker"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Phil Archer"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jonathan Holt"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
---

# DID Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc}

**Date:** 2020-03-31

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-did-wg/2020Mar/0024.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/03/31-did-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Daniel Burnett, Amy Guy, Brent Zundel, Yancy Ribbens, Ivan Herman, Manu Sporny, Kyle Den Hartog, Markus Sabadello, Tobias Looker, Phil Archer, Jonathan Holt

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Daniel Burnett

**Scribe(s):** Kyle Den Hartog, Amy Guy

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-did-wg/2020Mar/0004.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/member-did-wg/2020Mar/0004.html)

### 1. Agenda Review, Introductions, Re-introductions
{: #section1}

**Daniel Burnett:** the agenda for today is talk about next topic call  
… had points about Formal objects but will leave for next call  
… review issue 218 and majority of time is on status of registries  
… finish up with normal status up on core issues  
… any requests for changes to agenda  
… reintroductions unnecessary because all parties know each other  

### 2. Next Topic Call
{: #section2}

**Daniel Burnett:** next topic call will be in 14 hours  
… 6pm eastern time  
… using current zoom link  
… we'll continue using this until we see other reason not to  

**Ivan Herman:** this is officially the DID lounge :-)  

**Daniel Burnett:** we have reduced attendance, but will be interesting to see results  

### 3. straw poll - issue 218
{: #section3}

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/218](https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/218)

**Daniel Burnett:** manu could you describe the options of this issue to make sure no recent consensus is missed  

**Manu Sporny:** there's 3 options please jump in and correct if I'm wrong  
… we're trying to decide what we call terminology (e.g. did-url did-locator did-uri etc)  
… we need to call the thing where we tack on parameters something other than the uri  

**Ivan Herman:** I raised the issue because while what we have in the document is correct the harsh reality is the term url has adopted more colloquial usage  
… the term did-url may become a source of confusion because of this  
… if we want to take seriously that dids could be used in the web I could see confusion coming up  
… we may want to think of renaming this to avoid this issue  
… on the issue I proposed a strawpoll it's not a matter of formal objection  

**Manu Sporny:** +1 to strawpoll to make a decision  
… I looked at the WHAT-WG definition of a URL  
… the one main advantage we may have is that we clarify URL by prefixing with "did"  

> *Brent Zundel:* +1 to manu

**Manu Sporny:** this assists with creating the distinction and is the reason that I don't think we're necessarily in trouble with the WHAT-WG definition of the URL  
… I looked into if we could fit into the WHAT-WG definition as well  

**Tobias Looker:** my point was similar to manu... I think we need to decide if the prefix is going to assist with association then it's worth sticking with otherwise we should consider other names  

**Daniel Burnett:** The idea that WHAT-WG gets to define what a URL is a bit crazy. If you were in IETF they would reject that and I think we should not go there.  

> *Tobias Looker:* +1 to burn's point

**Markus Sabadello:** Yeah I agree with what others have said. metions about authority components and how they affect uris and urls  
… our DID URLs don't have a `//` double-slash, therefore the method-name and method-specific-id are parsed as the first segment of a path, rather than parsed as an "authority" component. (i'm not proposing to change that!)  

**Phil Archer:** I agree with a lot of people are saying. I've come to the view that did-url is the best we'll get. I wish it were otherwise but I accept the world as the way it is.  
… if we are careful to always use did-url I think it's ok  

> *Daniel Burnett:* Straw poll: DID URL or DID Locator

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to DID URL

> *Amy Guy:* +1 DID URL

> *Brent Zundel:* DID URL

> *Kyle Den Hartog:* +1 DID URL

> *Daniel Burnett:* +1 to DID URL

> *Phil Archer:* +1 to DID URL

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to Locator

> *Markus Sabadello:* +1 to DID URL

> *Tobias Looker:* +1 to DID URL

**Daniel Burnett:** strawpoll is fairly clear, but I will ask again on larger group call  

**Ivan Herman:** combining the minutes and the comments I think we can decide to go with did-url  
… since I raised it I'm ok with closing the issue  

**Daniel Burnett:** since you raised the issue, I think it's fine to close this  

> ***Resolution #1: close issue 218***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

> *Phil Archer:* phila: Would like to record that I stressed the importance of always saying 'DID URL' and never just URL

**Ivan Herman:** and if someone objects then we can reopen the issue  

### 4. Registries' issues status check
{: #section4}

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc)

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/3](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/3)

**Daniel Burnett:** orie is not here for this issue manu would you like to talk to this  

**Manu Sporny:** this is in process to fix JSON-LD links  
… orie has done a good job of getting these links fixed  
… the redirects from w3.org are not redirecting properly so that the test suite works properly  
… and these are under the control of the editors in the did-core registries  
… tried to add comment, but faced issues because I don't have my 2FA device  

**Ivan Herman:** does this mean that v1 and v2 vocabularies are under our control from now on?  

**Manu Sporny:** it depends what you mean by "our"  
… we meaning between did-wg and ccg we now can update it  
… security stuff under ccg still, but did stuff under did-wg  
… DID-WG has control over the DID Context and the URL used in the DID Context are under the w3 urls  
… what actually matters are the actual values?  

**Ivan Herman:** on a practical level say the did work realizes there's one or two terms in the security file that must be added or changed because it's wrong  
… and in some way dependent on that, but that means we as a group cannot change that. It's up to the CCG?  

**Manu Sporny:** yes  
… to put a finer point on it the editors for the DID-WG are the same in the CCG security vocabulary  
… and both can make edits to both of them  
… the likelihood that we end up with a situation where a bug occurs it's highly likely that we'd detect it  
… we do not have a normative dependency on the JSON-LD context that are in the CCG  
… because these registries are in flux, CCG is longer lived based on number so likely better place to keep it for now  
… and they're interested to keep those things up to date because they have other work items depending on it  

**Daniel Burnett:** lets not discuss the issue if we can help it  

**Jonathan Holt:** the concern is with great power comes great responsibility. Who audits the security context?  

**Daniel Burnett:** I'll allow that question  

**Manu Sporny:** the short answer is the W3C CCG  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/16](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/16)

**Manu Sporny:** still working through this one and in process  
… some things are checked and some not. Unsure how pedantic to be  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/7](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/7)

**Manu Sporny:** "improving" on what other WGs have done  
… I don't think there's been an update on this issue yet. We should leave it until Orie comes back  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/5](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/5)

**Manu Sporny:** this was assigned to jonathan_holt  
… we don't quite know how we'll do the equivalent at this point  
… one thing we can do because of the lossless guarantee is to convert CBOR to JSON and run through JSON Schema, but now tooling has been built yet  

**Jonathan Holt:** I'm still working on it and that's in line with my plan  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/17](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/17)

**Manu Sporny:** rhiaro made a proposal  

**Amy Guy:** theres a lot in this issue and my proposal doesn't cover it all, but overlaps quite a bit with it  
… I made a proposal about some of the namespaces in issue 28  

**Manu Sporny:** there's a tried and true pattern of how to do content negotiation at w3c  
… ivan and I are discussing what each file leads to  
… that conversation is ongoing and rhiaro is correct that we have another open question "What do we do with the registry?"  
… the machine and human readability is addressed by rhiaro proposal  
… what we don't have clarity on is how do we represent...  
… we're probably going to want to publish urls from time to time and it's uncertain what the frequency of publishing will be  
… we could version with minor major with it bound to time (e.g. year and month) similar to ubuntu releases  
… if we feel that's too frequent then we could go just by year  
… if we use year we would start 2021 and it shouldn't be considered stable until the end of year  
… we need to pick something and go with it  

**Daniel Burnett:** please include this details in the issue  

**Ivan Herman:** there's a slightly more general question: If everything is only JSON-LD then everything is fine and easy the problem is that the HTML5 is referred to for all, so if we have a redirection scheme then we should get something that's useful for all formats  
… that's where I'm not sure where we're heading  
… because JSON-LD is a bit unstable currently  

**Daniel Burnett:** want to keep it to updates because I want to get through all possible during this call  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/23](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/23)

**Daniel Burnett:** status of this one is it's still under discussion  

**Amy Guy:** it's not explicit about if there should be a URI Dave and Orie have said yes. I'm happy to make a PR if all agree  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/22](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/22)

**Daniel Burnett:** status next steps are PR  

**Amy Guy:** this one is still a bit under discussion  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/26](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/26)

**Amy Guy:** still discussing if terms can be used in did-core  
… still ongoing  
… the next action is on CCG and I opened an issue for this  

**Daniel Burnett:** so this is just a tracking issue  

**Amy Guy:** yes this is just tracking until CCG takes action on their end  

**Daniel Burnett:** we've sometime had issues with coordination because on the other end CCG doesn't take it anywhere. Looks like this probably is not a concern this time.  
… this should be fine for now  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/9](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/9)

**Daniel Burnett:** looks like it's still under discussion  

**Manu Sporny:** yeah it's under discussion. We're trying to figure out what goes in the registry and what doesn't and how do we reference things that are outside?  
… seems like rhiaro may have proposed a way through this  

> *Amy Guy:* +1 what burn says

**Daniel Burnett:** in my mind I think of them like IANA registries. It only points to references, not to include details  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to what burn just said, agreed.

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/19](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/19)

**Manu Sporny:** we want to define some stuff that sidetree uses and Mike Jones says don't do that  
… I think this is a perfect example of what the registry is for  
… this is a test of how decentralized the registry is  
… if it's blocked because the did-wg doesn't want it's more centralized, but if the registry can ignore the wg decisions it's a bit damaging to the consensus we've formed  

**Daniel Burnett:** this is going to come down to a maintainer process  

**Manu Sporny:** and in this case I'd expect the process to produce disagreement  

**Ivan Herman:** what would help this?  

**Daniel Burnett:** sometimes further discussion will help us to decide metalevel decisions  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** slightly related, to highlight because I raised it in did-core - to what degree do we need to be specifying these things and to what degree does it fall into the maintaner process?  
… keys coming in compressed or uncompressed formats can cause interop issues  

**Manu Sporny:** the general answer is you have to specify it precisely enough to enable interoperability  
… that depends on exactly what you're defining  
… in your case publicKeyHex will be paired if using ld security stuff  
… unless you have publicKeyHex and publicKeyHexCompressed  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** that makes sense, i disagree a bit but let's take that offline  

**Jonathan Holt:** it will be trivial to introduce a vulnerability  

**Manu Sporny:** that's the nature of decentralized development  

**Daniel Burnett:** I suspect that this issue will generate the metadiscussion that needs to be discussed specifically  
… and if this happens spawn the metadiscussion off  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/13](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/13)

**Manu Sporny:** almost completed. Last three items are questionable at this point  
… naming has gone off topic and rhiaro will cover it  
… discussion ongoing  

> *Daniel Burnett:* [https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/28](https://github.com/w3c/did-core-registries/issues/28)

**Amy Guy:** this is my proposal on how to solve all the problems  
… discussion is ongoing and there's already some objections  
… would be nice to have some more people weigh in  

### 5. editorial helpers
{: #section5}

**Manu Sporny:** we want to report out that we want to add rhiaro and kdenhartog to assist with triaging  
… both have been accepted but a note needs to be made that triaging is on behalf of group not on behalf of your org  
… if you see objections to label please seek assistance from editors chairs and the disagreeing parties  
… we have an action to document the labeling process  
… we don't know when we'll write that doc  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** assignment goes to the author of the issue unless otherwise stated?  

**Manu Sporny:** yes  

---


### 6. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): close issue 218
